(upbeat music)
- When using X3, we go higher repetitions
so the minimum amount of
repetitions you do, should be 15.
And there's a very good reason for why.
And it's not a research based reasons
it's practical based reason.
Because you're seven times stronger
in that stronger range out here
than you are back at the bottom.
The weight you're using
in that stronger range
is far beyond what your
one rep maximum would be.
So like, for example,
when I do the chest press
with this bar and the elite band,
that's the one I use
it's 540 pounds at peak
and I might do 22 reps.
That's about where I'm at right now.
So do 22 repetitions.
I'm sure, oh, I couldn't
do a one rep maximum
on a regular bench press with 540 pounds.
So remember X3 is built
to trigger muscle to grow.
Not so you can talk
about how strong you are.
If you wanna go do a feat
of strength somewhere else,
as irresponsible as that
may be, be my guest.
But that's not what X3 is for.
So take the ego out of it
and do 15 repetitions minimum.
Because when you're out here,
if you can't do at least 15 repetitions
you're using a weight you
have no business being under
and you could let go of the
bar and cause an injury.
You know, it can come and snap
back at you in a chest press
and hit you in the chest.
It could hit the top of
your feet in a deadlift
which does happen from time to time.
It doesn't happen to the
people who use it correctly
but it does to the people
who don't use it correctly.
There's rare exceptions to that.
One small piece of advice.
You might not wanna do this
while you're watching your kids
'cause they can distract you
'cause they are a troublemakers at times.
So, you know, you lose focus
while you're doing a heavy
weightlifting experience.
You could be distracted
and you could let go.
So, you wanna make sure
you're hanging out at the bar
15 repetitions minimum.
And then for on the maximum side
we go all the way up to 40 repetitions.
These repetitions are also
very slow and controlled.
Two to three seconds up and
two to three seconds back.
So that is a very slow
and controlled movement.
Now, that forces much
more stabilization firing
which then triggers a
growth hormone regulation.
So this is why people
get so lean so quickly
using X3.
So that's really important.
Now what we also see sometimes,
is people saying they wanna do
a light day and a heavy day.
Now I know why they wanna do that.
There's a lot of articles
written about periodization.
Now, periodization does
with regular weightlifting
induce better results.
The research has shown this
and the reason why people
do like a light day
and a heavy day, when
they do periodization
is 'cause you kinda build
up, you go light days
and the medium days and the heavy days
and then you kinda cycle back down.
The reason is, you're focused
more on sarcoplasmic growth,
which is the volume of a cell
with a sarcoplasmic type stimulus.
And that's a high repetition type day.
And on a lower repetition heavier day,
the quote heavy days,
you're using a higher weight
to try and stimulate myofibril growth,
which is actually the density of the cell,
as opposed to just the
volume, the density and power.
So, they compliment each other.
But with weights, you can't
get both in one experience.
Now, applying this 2X3, is not smart.
Because every experience with X3,
is the benefit of a heavy day.
And it is the benefit of a light day.
So you get both at once.
So the benefit of the heavy day
is when you are going to
fatigue in this range of motion
and using a weight
beyond a one rep maximum.
So you're triggering all kinds of growth,
well first fatigue and then growth.
And then as you diminish the range,
because this is a very
important part of the protocol
as you can't get to that stronger range
you do shorter repetitions.
So my last few repetitions
in the chest press,
like, let's say half in my
last, let's say two or three
might only be like one inch.
Now when that happens
you're evacuating all of the ATP glycogen
and creating phosphate in the cells,
forcing the cells to get rid
of all of their contract fuels
which then volumize the cell.
So you get the benefit of both
in every experience with X3.